W-22713101 llm pii policy gr (#1077)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.13/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-included-llm-pii-detection.adoc

= LLM PII Detection Policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:keywords: api gateway, flex gateway, gateway, policy, llm, pii, personally identifiable information

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy Name | LLM PII Detection Policy
>s|Summary      | Detects personally identifiable information (PII) in OpenAI-format LLM requests and responses
>s|Category | LLM
>s|First Omni Gateway version available | v1.13.0

> .>s| Returned Status Codes

Reviewer: Is that dot in front of the >s intentional? The others don't have it. Just making sure.

== Configuring Policy Parameters

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=configFileTitleOnly]

The LLM PII Detection policy isn't supported in Local Mode.

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=ui]

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a"]
|===
| Element | Required | Description
| PII Types | Yes | Array of built-in PII types to detect. Supported values are *Email*, *US SSN*, *Credit Card*, and *Phone Number*. For more information, see <<pii-types>>.
| Custom PII Patterns | No | Array of custom regex patterns to detect additional sensitive values. Define a name and regex pattern for each array entry. For example, use `name: AWS Access Key` and `pattern: AKIA[0-9A-Z]{16}` to detect AWS access keys.
| Action | No | Action to take when PII is detected in a request. Supported values are *Reject*, *Log*, and *Log and mask*. Default is *Log*.
|===

== How This Policy Works

The policy scans only OpenAI-format JSON traffic. It recursively inspects all string values in the JSON body, including all conversation messages.

> The policy only inspects requests whose method is `POST`, the body is JSON, and the `x-input-format` header indicates an OpenAI format.

Reviewer: Suggestion: The policy inspects only POST requests whose body is JSON and whose x-input-format header indicates an OpenAI format.

    "type": "pii_detected"
  }
}
----

== Example Request and Logging

This example shows a request containing PII and the corresponding log output for different action configurations.

[source,http]
----
POST /v1/chat/completions HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "model": "gemini/gemini-2.5-flash",
  "messages": [
    {"role": "user", "content": "Look up the account for SSN 123-45-6789 and email john@example.com"},
    {"role": "user", "content": "Look up the account for credit card 4123 8171 5881 9171"},
    {"role": "user", "content": "hello"}
  ]
}
----

[tabs]
====
Log::
+
--
When the action is set to *Log*, the policy logs detected PII with the actual values:

[source,json]
----
[accessLog]  PII detected in LLM request (log only): [
  {
    "pii_type": "SSN",
    "value": "123-45-6789",
    "start": 28,
    "end": 39
  },
  {
    "pii_type": "Email",
    "value": "john@example.com",
    "start": 50,
    "end": 66
  },
  {
    "pii_type": "CreditCard",
    "value": "4123 8171 5881 9171",
    "start": 31,
    "end": 50
  }
]
----
--

Log and Mask::
+
--
When the action is set to *Log and mask*, the policy logs detected PII with masked values:

[source,json]
----

> [accessLog]  PII detected in LLM request (log only): [

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[accessLog]  PII detected in LLM request (log and mask): [
```

Reviewer: ?
